Computers react faster than humans.
If you can automate problem recovery,
then you will have less downtime and more sleep.
Problems that are standard will have standard solutions.
If an EC2 instance fails because its underlying hardware fails,
the solution is to create a new instance.
Automating this reaction is straightforward.
You still want to know about automated recovery.
If your automated recovery measures are executing
more frequently than normal, you should investigate.
You may not need to wake people up in the middle of the night,
but do create lesser notifications about these activities.
Automation is a fantastic tool,
but don't allow your automation to make the problem worse.
If your database has suddenly started using
more disk space and you have automation in place to add more automatically,
you may wind up adding tremendous amounts of
disk space and not addressing the underlying problem,
which might be that something is mistakenly adding new data.
Several AWS services can autoscale to help you with some automated recovery.
Dynamodb, RDS disk space scaling,
EC2 AutoScaling Groups, and Lambda are examples of these services.
They all have some ability to scale up in response to changes in your workload.
Configuring these services to do so can be tremendously valuable.
Keep in mind that some things will scale up automatically,
but will not scale down so gracefully.
RDS disk space is like this,
and the only way to reduce
RDS disk space is to migrate your data to a new database instance.